When we arrive at the Kingdom Hall for a meeting don't you agree that we all feel refreshed the moment we see the smiling faces of our brothers and sisters
That's how I feel
Sometimes we can even take our beautiful meeting location for granted
But did you know that a lot of work goes into making sure that our Kingdom Halls are well utilized?
The Worldwide Design Construction Department or WDC is tasked with analyzing our worldwide needs and
Providing direction to local design construction departments on how best to use our dedicated funds
As we approach the end of the present system of things
Jehovah continues to speed up the work
We now have more than
62,000 Kingdom Halls worldwide and the demand is still growing
Jehovah's Blessing on the Kingdom work is undeniable as this could not have been accomplished otherwise
Many have been working for years in support of Kingdom Hall and assembly hall construction projects
Most recently as part of the local design construction or LDC program
This program was implemented during the
2014 service here and unifies the approach for construction of Kingdom Halls worldwide
What has been accomplished since the program started at the end of the
2000 service year half of the publishers worldwide met in suitable meeting places
However the other half approximately three million publishers met in places that were overcrowded or otherwise unsuitable as Kingdom Halls
At that time 27,000 Kingdom Halls were needed
By 2014 the number of publishers meeting in unsuitable facilities had been reduced
But due to growth in the organization
This still meant that 1.6 million publishers did not have a suitable meeting place
Since 2014 that figure has been reduced by 25%
What accounts for this significant reduction in the backlog allowing us to catch up faster than in the past
Part of the answer lies in making efficient use of the facilities we already have
When providing food for thousands Jesus made it clear that nothing should be wasted
The LDC program applies that principle to the seats in our Kingdom Halls
As noted earlier, we have 62,000 Kingdom Halls worldwide on average only 60% of the seats are filled for congregation meetings
That means that approximately three to four million seats are empty during congregation meetings each week
There are a number of options to help make better use of these seats
Which will make the use of each Kingdom Hall more efficient
Consider for example a Kingdom Hall in an urban area
It has 200 seats and is used by four congregations sharing the facility
That means the Kingdom Hall will be in use for four weeknight meetings and for weekend meetings
It would definitely appear to be fully utilized and suggest the need for new construction for further growth
However, how many seats were in the Kingdom Hall?
Multiplyed by meetings for the four congregations this facility has a total seating capacity of 800 people
Global records indicate that congregations using this size Kingdom Hall have an average attendance of
120 at their meetings
This could mean that only
480 seats are used by the four congregations in this Kingdom Hall and
320 seats remain empty not very efficient
If the four congregations were redistributed into three congregations
average meeting attendance for each congregation would increase to about 160 per meeting while still fitting comfortably in that Kingdom Hall
And this would now allow for an open slot in the schedule
Which could be used to meet needs in the area without requiring new construction
In the first three years of the LDC program
fully utilizing our existing facilities played a part in reducing the backlog of Kingdom Hall projects from
14,000 to approximately 10,000 this saved millions of dollars
Of course, this does not meet every need and there's still a significant need to construct new Kingdom Halls to provide suitable places of worship
How does the branch office make these decisions and how our priority set?
All options are examined as the branch committees work with their local design construction and service departments
Transportation needs such as distance opportunities for carpooling and availability of public transportation are taken into account
In many cases congregations can be sized to make better use of available seats in Kingdom Halls that have already been built
However, when they are needed new Kingdom Halls can be constructed using simple standard designs that make wise use of denated funds
Of course, all of this must be done with the big picture in mind
It is the spiritual needs of the congregations that are of the utmost priority
The structures themselves are not the focus of the centers of pure worship
But rather it is the people who use the facilities
On one occasion as they passed the temple
Mark 131 quotes one of Jesus disciples admiring the structure when he said
Teach us see what wonderful stones and buildings
However
Jesus reply simply indicated that the building itself would not last
It was people Jesus was concerned with
Likewise
The Kingdom Halls that we built today will not last forever
But these centers of pure worship bring people together so that we can serve Jehovah as a united group
And that will last forever
Whether we assist in the construction of the many Kingdom Halls that are still needed or
Help to renovate and maintain existing Kingdom Halls
It is our shared privilege to help provide suitable meeting places for our brothers and sisters
In this way
We each support the faithful and discreet slave as they provide what is needed
So that each congregation can praise Jehovah in a suitable place of worship